# Andenes Whales App

<https://andenes-whales.shinyapps.io/AndenesWhales/>

Goal of this app is to visualise sighting and photo-identification data
collected onboard the whale watching companies Whale2Sea
(<https://whale2sea.no>) and Whale Safari Andenes
(<https://whalesafari.no>) and the NGO Norwegian Orca Survey
(<http://norwegianorcasurvey.no>). All three are based in Andenes,
northern Norway.

## Encounter location & time

### Panel 1

A map with encounters within selected time range, of selected species,
from selected platforms are shown. Additionally the boat tracks for the
two whale watching companies can be displayed upon selection. Note: data
is only available for Whale2Sea from 2020-01-01 and for Whale Safari
from 2023-04-27.

### Panel 2

Number of sighting days per month are shown by bars and the distance
covered by the two whale watching companies in the relevant months for
the selected time range.

## Photo-identification

Individual animals were identified based on unique optical features
captured on photographs to estimate numbers of individuals and recapture
rates. Bars show new identifications and re-sightings, the black line
shows total number of identified individuals over the years. Users can
select platforms that contributed to photo-identification, which body
side(s) should be taken into account, and select a narrow angle as well
as high quality and distinctiveness for lower chance of mis- or
double-identifications. ±45° uses only photos taken from a right angle
±45° in the identification process. High quality and distinctiveness
uses only photos of high quality and very distinctive individuals.

#### Contact: <eckerle.alex@gmail.com>
